So Greenfield development.
But first I wanted to give you an update
on this exercise that we finished up with
yesterday about running prompts and
GitHub workflows. So let me.
Show you this first.
So this is this is a test we I submitted
a a request or PR that had a a a number
of issues of intentional violations in it
and.
We look down at the bottom.
After all of this, we'll see that.
Where was that?
Yeah,
see here that it's actually evaluated
those and and notice that there are style
check valid failures and categorized
those and described you know exactly what
those issues were that it found.
So this is what we were looking to try to
accomplish.
We wanted to make sure that we could run
a prompt in a PR hook and have it execute
and.
Update that a comment.
Um, if I found something,
so that's that's cool.
So let me just talk about how we how I
got to that place.
It was kind of an interesting journey.
So First off, let's look here.
This is the file that I sent it and you
can see there's comments about the the
violations that it was expecting or I I I
had introduced and.
This is the final version of the.
Of the of the workflow.
So so the first thing I did after class
in order to to to work this out was I.
I just said,
well let's just go evaluate the file
against the the the instruction file and
make sure that it actually finds an issue
and it it did.
So that was so that just told me it
wasn't the file.
It was definitely something that needed
to be done in the.
Pipeline or the workflow. So.
So the next thing I I did was I gave it a
a pretty a pretty large prompt that says
that this can yeah, yeah.
John, I'm sorry to interrupt.
Are you showing the screen that you're
talking about?
Because we are still looking at the pull
Oh, I'm sorry.
request.
I'm sorry.
Oh, that's OK.
I was just wondering if something should
Oh.
be changing there.
Oh yeah,
something should be changing there.
All right, so let me go back back.
OK.
OK. Thank you.
Well, Sir, thanks for pointing it out.
So the first thing I did was.
I I I ran it locally and and it did it
did find the issues. So I I did this.
I created this prompt and said this
committed introduced an intentional style
violation and then I said this was the.
Style checker.
This is a link to the actual job that had
the where it didn't fail and it says it
passed. I expected it to fail.
It explained why it failed and this is
what it came back with almost immediately.
It says the workflow is currently using a
hard coded place.
It would always returns pass.
So what happened?
What we didn't do is we actually didn't
look at the output that it created and
the South check version had right at the
top that said you need to choose one of
these three methods which is either using.
GitHub Copilot Open AI or Azure Open AI
as an option and uncomment the code for
that whichever one you picked.
So you can see here that it is a
temporary placeholder and asked to remove
some of the options.
So if we had looked at the code we could.
That it produced.
We would have seen this and actually
identified that that was that we had to
actually make some changes and the AI
wasn't actually gonna go any farther than
just suggesting what what the possible
solutions were. So then I went in I.
I I didn't said I I went in and
uncommented the one for the for the the
copilot CLI and I got a change and it
this was an interesting in that.
The first change it suggested was a was a
very minor like a commented like I added
a comment and I came back and said well.
Um.
So when it ran it,
the first time it ran it,
it tried to run the GitHub copilot and it
the command itself failed and then it
says that the then it said the GitHub CLI
doesn't have a copilot extension
installed.
So you made a modification to the style
check for that.
And it in order to and it and it it and
what it did it was actually wanted to use
the open AIAPI instead.
So I I actually stopped it and I I I said
I wanted to use the.
And it said can we install the GitHub
copilot CLI extension instead of the on
the runner and it came back.
And so yeah, yeah, we can do that.
So we modified this the the YAML file
again to do to do the GitHub Copilot CLI
instead of the open AI one.
And when that when that ran.
Um.
We got this error.
And error that said it was calling the
substring function,
so it it it failed because it was trying
to call a a a function that didn't
actually exist.
And so we made another modification to
that and eventually what we ended up with
was that.
Where was that recommendation?
So it continued.
We went back and forth about this to try
to get to a point and and basically what
it came back and said the suggest command
is not the right tool for the task.
It's designed for interactive command
suggestions and not structured data
analysis and that.
CLI is trying to insert our prompt as a
shell command and returning an error and
then it wants to switch back again to the
Open AI version of it.
And the reason I was shying away from
this is because it was requesting an Open
AI API key and I didn't have an Open AI
key.
So,
but then the end of end result of it was
that the only the only real solution was
actually to try to use Open AI.
And so I went and got an Open AI key and
signed up for that which I hadn't done
yet and then got an Open AI key and added
it into the GitHub.
Secrets store and it and then it worked.
So the so here's it telling you how to go
go about getting a an open AI key and
getting and storing it as a secret.
And so I said OK,
I've added that API key as a secret.
Then we went kind of back and forth.
I thought that was kind of fun.
But once I I said that, I said OK,
this it made a modification that's
basically suggested a very small change
to the file. And then I said, well,
that style check only looks at the
changes, so this small change won't work.
And then he says, Oh yeah,
you're right about that.
It's always says I'm right.
And then?
I had asked it to make another
modifications another,
but it came back with another small
change and so I basically had to create a
brand new file which is this this first
version here and then.
It wanted to go back and make a small
modification to this file and I had to go
back and tell it no,
you need to use a much more comprehensive
set of you had to create a new file so
that would actually have some diffs that
would allow it to execute and then
eventually.
Eventually the the the style ran the the
workflow was triggered and it was able to
update the PRPR request and.
And add the comment to the PR.
Any question on that?
What would be the equivalent of using
these open API keys in Azure DevOps?
There is an there is an addition.
The third,
the third suggestion that it made in
addition to Open AI is that there's an
Azure Open AI and you would, but I don't.
Well, I have.
I have access to Azure DevOps,
but I didn't have really the time to get
to.
To create a project in Azure DevOps and
incorporate it,
but it'd be basically the same thing.
You would use Azure Open AI instead of
just the standard Open AI and provide it
with a.
A token and you should be able to run the
same thing.
And I also did a little bit of research
in Azure DevOps in terms of implementing
this in Azure DevOps and it has the
support it needs in order to.
Update the PR. Update the PRS.
OK, as long as it's possible,
we'll figure it out.
Yeah,
it's it's definitely possible and it
would it would work pretty much the same
way as it's working here.
OK. Thanks.
Alright, so alright.
John,
would you would you should be able to to
share with us.
It looks like you had some fun yesterday
after we finished figuring it all out.
How much effort was it on your end to to
Yeah.
maybe debug and come to those conclusions?
So just just looking for some reference
number. Are we talking you know?
Half an hour or three hours or five hours.
But no, I was.
I would say between 1/2 an hour and an
hour it it was working. You know,
most of it. I was, you know,
OK.
if I'd had taken its advice right off the
bat and and if I already had an open AI
key,
it would have been much quicker than that
Right.
because.
I would have just been able to add that
open AI key to the GitHub repo and it
would have been able to kick that off
right away.
I just thought it was interesting in the
sense that it kind of to me it emphasized.
But.
The need for us to actually go and look
at the output that's created because it
created something that would pass every
single time and it asked us to actually
make a decision in the code.
About how what approach we actually
wanted to take.
And that wasn't really evident from the
output that I saw,
but it was definitely something that we
needed to go. And it was kind of,
it was kind of like when he comes back
and says, oh, well,
it's always gonna pass, you know?
It's hard coded that way and you need to
make a decision. I thought that was,
I thought that was an interesting
response and an interesting way to go,
but it wasn't. It wasn't a lot of effort.
Yeah.
The other thing I did was um.
Was a little more fun. It was um.
I think it's this guy, right? Right.
So I had this notion we we've talked
about, you know,
managing our context and I've had this
notion all along that I'm that I'm not.
I could do a better job at it.
So what I did was I.
I had this.
I had this idea that I want to implement.
I'll show you a little bit later,
probably tomorrow about how to implement
code in using something called a vertical
slice. Have you?
Have you ever familiar with that?
No.
So a vertical slice says you take a
project and you break it down into
features where the whole feature can be
implemented from the the UI all the way
through into the persistent data store.
So it can be.
It's like a completely demonstrable
feature.
So you start off with the very first
thing that you do is to analyze the code
and try to figure out the the project and
try to figure out how to build,
how to implement it in vertical slices
and the.
The main benefit that I see from it,
there are actually two things.
One is that it gets you into a place
where you've got working code much faster
than if you start to go in a layered
approach where you build out the data
tier and then you build up the middle
tier on top of that and then you build up
the UI on top of that.
To get to the point where you can
actually show somebody something working
is much farther along.
So here you can actually say, OK,
I wanna create this one piece and it's
only gonna do this one little thing,
but it's gonna do it all the way through
the whole stack and I would include in
that whole stack the ability to push it
into a production.
Environment going through even a test
environment before. it gets there.
So a full CICD implementation that
implements one small piece of the final
solution that you're trying to build.
So I think that's a really attractive
person.
The reason that I think it appealed to me
for this is that.
The process I'm going to show you today
that I've been evolving in by taking a
layered approach to it,
it would be like several steps into the
process before I would get any feedback
at all about anything was working and to
get to the point.
I actually start implementing the AI.
I had to build out all of these layers in
order for I can actually see what the AI
would actually look like.
So I wanted a process to get me that
feedback.
Much much faster so I can adjust the
process and make incremental improvements
on it as I'm doing the implementation and
a vertical slice approach is is a great
way I think to do to do that.
So I wanted to create some instruction
files and I started off with this.
One instruction file here,
which is business rules to vertical
slices. So the idea is that it, well,
actually it wasn't quite the first one I
came up with.
It was a vertical slices implementation
instructions.
And what this was is that it is, you know,
if you were going to create a vertical
slice,
what is the the process that you go for
in order to actually create that vertical
slice?
And you notice that it's it's doing a
feature centric organization of of the
implementation.
So everything goes under a feature,
then there's an under features,
then there's a feature,
then you have some implementation.
John,
I think we are looking at the other
screen.
Oh, easy guys. Bye. No, no, no, I'm sorry.
Sorry,
can can I also throw in a question at the
same time?
Why not?
Related to this,
does this have anything to do with
feature flags and are you using any kind
of framework for feature flags?
No,
I'm saying that it definitely would tie
to a feature flag because it's organized
by features.
It'd be very easy to add a feature flag
to this and so that each feature that can
be turned on and off.
And one of the reasons I kind of wanted
to go down this approach is I wanted to
try to see if I could speed up the
process by by taking advantage of like
this ability to defer or delegate the
implementation to to some.
To the AI and have it go out and create a
create a a a branch and then make a PR
for that branch and then I can merge
those branches together. But yeah,
it would it would dovetail.
I think it would dovetail very well with
OK. Thanks.
that and it wouldn't be very difficult to
to implement.
All right,
so let me open this up in a preview and
just going to go over it since it's a new
concept and let's bring this into a new
window.
Mm.
Here we go.
So it it it's a feature centric
organization of your project where you
have features and under those features
you have things like you know,
a user registration, a product search,
whatever the actual features are instead
of a structure that's organized around.
The artifacts, controllers,
services and repositories.
So that's a different way of thinking
about how to implement a project.
And when you look at the underlying user
registration here, you have a command,
a handler, a validator.
A registration repository data transfer
object.
So you have all of the underneath that
feature.
You have all of the related artifacts
associated with implementing that feature,
and then you have vertical independence
that each slice should be independently.
Deployable, testable and understandable.
So when you come back and you've already
implemented a feature and you need to
make a change to it,
all of the files are necessary.
They're there and you can actually work
on it and deploy it.
A thin shared kernel so that you keep the
shared code.
Minimal and focus on true cost cutting
concerns.
Um, here's a high level structure.
We talked about that where you have
features and then you have common common
pieces of code, the API,
the database and testing.
There's a request flow then that
describes the endpoint reason request
that's mapped to a command community
object into a mediator or a router
handler executed in feature logic and
then he returns a result.
Response back to the caller and the API
maps that results in HTTP response.
This uses an an architecture,
or at least it dovetails with an
architecture called CQRS.
Are you familiar with that?
That.
It's it's CQRS stands for Command Query
Response structure and it what it does is
it isolates the the the processing of a
command.
From the response itself.
So the idea is that you would send a
command in and then you that command
would then be processed is processed
usually using an event driven type of
architecture and then it takes and
produces a response that comes back out
of it and the two things are.
Independent of each other other and they
it is the it's it's the.
Uh.
It's the the the independent over.
They're implemented independently and you
can use the command side of things that
you're actually making a request is
optimized explicitly for.
Receiving those and processing those
requests as quickly as possible and the
output section of it is optimized for
retrieving the information to respond to
the request and sending that result back.
So they're highly decoupled in terms of
their capabilities.
And they can be optimized all the way
down to the database level to the point
where the response side of things could
be substantially denormalized in order to
optimize the return response times.
Yeah,
so this architecture goes well with this
implementation strategy implementation
guidelines.
Each feature should show a consistent
structure.
This is what the user registration
function might look like.
And then you have a command query object.
For request objects,
which then you essentially send in a
request that gets put into an event queue
that eventually something will pick up
out of that event queue.
It will process that command and during
the process of that command it will go
and.
And do the response sign so that you have
a response process that will produce a
result.
So you have a command query object that
is a request.
You have a handler that actually does
that handles that request.
Then you do some validation.
There's a validation pipeline.
Then you do data access and using a DB
context,
you have a pattern for API endpoints and
feature.
And then we kind of talked about an
example of feature organization here with
the code structure looks like.
So anyway,
this is an interesting way I think of
approaching the implementation and I like
the idea of having these vertical slices.
So I wanted to try to incorporate this
into this process so that we could do an
exercise where we just try to implement
one feature and see if we can get that
one feature to work.
So as I was looking at this,
I was kind of thinking, well,
this is kind of like a lot of.
There's a lot of text here,
a lot of example code,
and I'm thinking this is gonna eat up a
lot of my token window, right?
Just to have the instruction files loaded
and have it actually.
Active in in my context window.
So I I asked copilot if there was ways
that this could be optimized for an AI
assistant and he came back and said yeah,
there's a lot of optimization that we
could do.
And So what I I had it do some of that
optimization.
And how to create a AI version of that of
these?
This vertical slice implementation.
So here's the A I to business role.
Here's the vertical slice A I version of
it,
and it's substantially more to the point,
and it's focused not on more conceptual
concepts, but.
How do you go about actually doing this?
And so it has a checklist and how to
implement these vertical slice
implementations.
And so I think this is kind of an
interesting point because then what I
added it to do is to take a look at all
the instructions that I have in this file
of this project.
And create an AI folder and create
optimized versions of all of these and so
that way.
So that way I would have something that I
could use actually for when I was using
an AI and some things that I would have
if I was actually trying to do this,
just to understand the process or
implement it on my own.
Yeah, so.
So I'll stop here and ask for questions.
See if you have any comments on that.
What kind of app is this?
Is it the web app or is it just REST API
Well,
we haven't really got into the business
endpoint or?
requirements yet.
So this is this is a vertical slice,
but it would it would be most likely a
web application,
but the back end processing you know
could be could be implemented.
Um.
Actually let me rephrase the question.
Is is the same instruction file
applicable to any app or only for
specific types of apps?
I think it's applicable to any
implementation that you want to you want
to do, but but it is it.
It does focus on particular architectural
patterns. So if you were to create,
so if you're creating a a monolithic
OK.
application,
it'd be much more difficult to implement
that in a vertical slice.
Because of the tight coupling that you
have to deal with when you're actually
going to that implementation, you know,
or if you're trying to implement it in a
in a more of a tiered approach,
you're going to have some of the same
challenge challenges.
But I think any I think by and large you
could apply this to any particular
problem domain and and get and be able to
use it to do an application
OK.
And one more question about the CQRS you
implementation.
mentioned. I haven't actually used that,
but it is tied to eventual consistency in
a way, right?
So it's like if you want to do like CRUD
operations, it's not the right thing.
Is that correct?
Oh yeah, it does have.
Like when if I worry about like
transactions like database transactions
and getting committed right away.
So in in other words,
as soon as I write I should be able to
read the same thing.
This is not the right type of design
pattern for that.
Is is that a correct assumption?
Um, I wouldn't.
I would I say that you you have to deal
with the.
We have to do be able to compensate for
for the for the slight delay that you
have between when something is processed.
OK, OK. So the delay,
that's the eventual consistency.
That's what I meant. OK.
Right.
But I would like I said you know if if if
the implementation is is you know
performance then that that delay is gonna
be very very minimal.
Right. And from a transaction perspective,
I think there's some benefits to this in
Yeah.
the sense that since you're processing a
command in a in a largely decoupled event
driven way,
if there's a problem with implementing
that that command because of some sort of.
Of lock or block on the database.
You can just basically put that back in
the queue and try it later and you don't
have to necessarily go back and you get
some flexibility there.
I think that you don't have if you're if
Yeah, yeah, OK.
you're immediately trying to update the
database.
Yeah, and just one more question I have.
It's totally unrelated.
Do you ever write code from scratch or do
you write all your code with prompts?
Well, it's a combination of both,
particularly when I'm working on,
you know, actual applications.
What I'm going to show you today is going
to be largely done with with AI.
And I tend to favor the AI simply because
it helps me learn how to use the AI
better.
And this is the kind of what I'm gonna
show you today is a bit of an experiment.
I've finished the second iteration of the
experiment and I'm working on 1/3.
Iteration,
which I'll talk about that adds
improvements into the process,
modifies the instruction files and
improves the with the idea of trying to
make it more efficient and make it
produce better outcomes.
Um, uh and.
So, but anyway,
so I to answer your question, I I do both.
It just depends on you know what the code
looks like.
But even if I'm writing the code by hand,
I'm I'm still using AI to make
suggestions in terms of what what the
issue are or help understand what the
code is doing or for that or the like.
But I I use the AI quite a bit.
OK. Thank you.
OK, so.
So there was 2 aspects that I I kind of
added to this yesterday.
One was the the vertical slice
implementation and the the second one I
added was how to turn business rules into
slices and I'll I'll show you that a bit
later, but I wanted to kind of get.
Get What I wanted to talk about was
optimizing our.
Are our instructions strictly for A I?
If we if we do a comparison,
say select this for comparison,
this is the vertical slice implementation
instructions with the A I vertical slice
implementation instructions.
You'll see that it made a substantial
amount of changes to the file to optimize
it for AI, and I actually had a prompt.
I don't know if I could find it for the
history.
Um.
I'm not seeing seeing what I was looking
for.
Anyway,
what the the prompt did was basically
instead of doing a a character by
character comparison between the two,
which is difficult to understand,
I just asked it to do a comparison
between the these two files and show me
what the actual difference was.
With a significant difference and that
produces a much cleaner analysis of the
difference.
And I got it and it basically said that
the original ones I created since I did
not specify this is really should be
targeted for AI.
Implementation and it should be optimized
for reducing the number of tokens
required to implement or to take
advantage of that instruction file that
this one that the human readable more
human readable one of the is more
conceptual in nature in terms of actually
describing.
The process where the the one that was
created specifically AI is much more
implementation focused in terms of how to
actually create those individual files.
And I'll get into a little bit more depth
with these later,
but I kind of want to go back now to the
slides.
So what we're going to talk about today
is what what I refer to as an A I
assisted workflow for Greenfield
development.
We'll talk about what project
requirements are, what they are.
I'm using a conceptual model here because
it provides a couple of benefits that
I'll point out.
And what workflows are implemented.
So I'm trying to say this is the project
requirements.
I don't want to focus a lot of time on
the particular model or the that I'm
using to notate them,
but say that we want to define what those
are.
Then we're going to create instruction
files for that project,
which we've done so much somewhat already,
but we can actually improve on that and
then do something called an
implementation prompts.
So this what this does is it looks the
idea here would be it would look at a
vertical slice and then.
And then create implementation prompts
that would actually allow us to go
through and implement that feature.
I've used this in both with the vertical
slice architecture or implementation as
well as just a standard tier architecture.
I'll go through and show you some
examples of what those look like and we
can go on then I'll just talk at the end
of.
A course about lessons learned,
what's coming,
what I'm what I'm coming down the Pike
with in terms of and some tips and tricks
to which are kind of just random things
that I think it's helping me out.
So in this in in this part of the course,
we're going to continue to use this AI
assisted software development one that I
just showed you that has all the prompts
and all the instruction files that I've
created so far that we can take,
you can take advantage of.
There's a Zeus academia.
2 which is the the second version of this
of this academia problem domain that I'm
working with and the idea that I that as
I go through one iteration to the next I
use the same exact business requirements.
So I'm not changing those.
The only thing I'm changing is how it
gets implemented.
And we'll get into that.
So here's this high-level workflow.
So the idea is that we start with a
definition of business requirements.
The business requirements are obviously a
key to the implementations of a
Greenfield app and be able to define
those well up.
Front as much as we can and then proceed
to use those business requirements to
drive out the rest of the implementation
of the application.
So in this process the stakeholders
define the requirements so.
In lieu of stakeholders actually telling
us what the application needs to do,
what I've done is I've picked up an
existing problem domain which has an
existing conceptual model that we can use
that will allow us to say that, OK,
this is the.
Requirements that these have been
validated by the stakeholders.
This is what we would need to implement
and it'll kind of jumpstart the whole
process.
We won't have to spend a lot of time
debating what the requirements are
because they're kind of already packaged
up and ready for us to take advantage of.
So then the AI transfers those
requirements into implementation
instructions.
So what this would do is start to turn
those into instructions that the app that
the implementation can use when it
actually wants to start to generate.
Pieces of the app.
So in this process the stakeholders and I
would include in the stakeholders the the
technology side of things because they're
all stakeholders as well.
So everybody would review these and
improve and approve them or improve them.
To the point where everyone's satisfied
that we have the correct requirements.
Then the AI uses the instructions to
create an importer implementation prompts,
and those actually are the things that
say you need to implement these things,
and then the stakeovers review and
improve those implementation prompts.
And because they're largely in natural
language,
we can it's easier for us to discuss
those and approve those.
Then it uses those implementation prompts
and the implementations instructions to
actually implement a implement to
solution.
And then we can obviously review and
approve approve that implementation
questions on this process.
So it's not as if we just say go,
you know, start out and write code.
We want to make this a a a structured
approach.
Um.
Yeah,
and it's something that is reviewed along
the way to make sure that it's correct.
So, so project requirements,
those are things like business rules,
workflows,
the the text stack that you need to
implement it in the architecture that
you're.
Intending to use are all things that we
wanna basically create instruction files
that says this is how you need to
implement this application.
So that's kind of the same thing.
Project requirements are business rules,
workflows and the architecture. All right,
so this is the.
A diagram which it's a a conceptual model
of an academia domain. So it has a whoops,
sorry.
So the way you can understand this model
is that it's.
Conceptual.
So it has no tied or it's technology
agnostic,
which means it's suitable for
implementing in any technology.
You can you can project this model into a
database structure.
You can project it into a a class,
a class.
Structure.
You can project it into a how a user
interface might be put together.
So that's a real interesting.
I just want to point out a couple of
things about it is that it has a very
rich constraint language which allows us
to.
Be very precise about our the the
business rules that we want to enforce
within this application.
So we have an academic here and it's this
is called a reference mode.
So it's referred to by an employee number
that academic.
Is contracted until the date, right.
So that's a this is referred to as a a a
predicate or a fact that we that we want
that we have an interest in recording you
know that data on it.
There's a little bar here that indicates
that this part of the this predicate.
Is is unique.
That means each academic is contracted
until until a date,
but from the dates perspective,
the date the multiple academics can be
can be contracted to that same date.
Does that make sense?
Yes, yes.
OK, all right.
So then we have another fact.
They.
This is a unary fact.
So there's this basically says that
academic either plays this role or
doesn't play this role.
And so then here we're saying the
academic is tenured.
And then this is what's called an
exclusion constraint.
And the exclusion constraint means that
if it's attached to this part.
This role and this role that the academic
can't play both roles at the same time.
So from a verbalization perspective,
the academic is either tenured or is
contracted until the date in this
exclusion constraint.
Implied that this needs to be implemented
in the application and respected so that
this is never the case.
So that if you have somebody that's
contracted in a date and you go to a
process that is tenured,
then you you no longer.
Need to want to preserve that date of
contractors is no longer relevant.
Any questions on that kind of constraint?
Alright,
so let me talk about a couple other ones.
Um.
So here is inheritance.
So we're looking at an academic who is
either a professor or a teacher,
or if or a teaching professor,
which is both an academic,
both a professor and a teacher.
So this is a multiple inheritance.
Implied in the model or subtyping.
And the idea here is that if you're a
professor,
you all of these facts that are directly
tied to the professor are in play.
If you're a teacher, then this.
Fact is in play,
and if you're a teaching professor,
then this fact comes into play.
And so the the application needs to
understand the difference between a
teacher and a professor and what the what
the rules are,
the business rules that are applied to
each.
And here we have a a a couple of roles
that kind of span the subtype where you
say an academic works for a department,
right?
And they work for a single department and
the little dot means it's required that
an academic work for a department.
And then we have a that our professor
actually heads a department.
And what's interesting about this is that
this is a full spanning uniqueness
constraint to it's that the professor can
work, can head.
One or more departments and a department
can be headed by more than one professor.
And we have a constraint here that says
that a professor that heads a department
also must work for that same department.
Does that make sense?
All right,
so the last thing I want to talk about is
a teacher here,
and it says the teacher is audited by
another teacher.
So this is what's referred to as a a ring,
and it's a.
So it's where the teacher plays both
roles in this fact.
Um.
And the uniqueness constraints of that a
teacher audits is audit.
A teacher is audited by multiple teachers,
but a teacher audits multiple teachers,
but a teacher is audited by a single
teacher.
And this is a ring constraint,
which is an irreflexive reach constraint
that says that if a teacher is audited by
another teacher,
it can't be the same teacher.
So a teacher can't audit themselves.
So there's just a couple of things.
Lots of different other constraints here.
Here's a constraint that describes what
the.
A lot of values are for that particular
role.
Here we're specifying specifically what
those values are.
Lots of different richness,
and I'll talk about some of that in a
little bit.
So as I said,
it's technology agnostic and
transformable into logical models that we
can actually implement.
And one thing I've liked about this kind
of notation is very clear in terms of
what you're trying to.
Specify. It's very expressive.
It's actually based on predicate logic,
so there's actually a formality to it
that underpins it.
It's not just a lines and boxes.
And but I just wanted to point out these
kinds of models are not a requirement for
we're doing Greenfield development.
I'm just using it as I.
A way of short cutting the process to get
to actual implementation,
but I do do really think that these kinds
of conceptual models are really add a lot
of value into a the design of an
application.
All right then.
So then specifically optical models,
which is the one I show is a type of
conceptual model.
It's supported in Visual Studio via an
extension called Norma.
I probably could show you that.
And did I have it open?
No, I'll show it to you in a minute.
And what's I think another interesting
aspect of these or models that they're
textual and visual.
So the text can be visualized and the
which means you can turn the text into a
diagram or the diagrams can be verbalized,
which means you can.
Take the diagram or a piece of the
diagram and turn it into into text.
This dual nature of the model makes it
really suitable for validating with
subject matter experts because.
When you when you show them the diagram,
which is,
I'm sure the same impression that you got
of it out of it was that it's very it's
just very difficult to understand at
first glance what it's trying to express.
But if you can turn it into text,
that's something that you can actually.
Validate with the subject matter expert
and they can tell you whether those
constraints that you we've diagrammed are
actually valid in the in the context of
the application.
All right, so Academia 2 is based on.
It's based on a publicly available model
of a commonly understood domain.
So this kind of allows us to think,
not think about the the problem domain
because we kind of know what teachers and
professors and academia model looks like.
If you if you're interested in how this
model was actually created,
this white paper actually walks you
through the whole process, starting with,
you know,
a blank page and what are the what is the
kind of analysis that you need to do in
order to produce a a a valid model.
But it allows us quickly to to move,
you know,
from for the for the purposes of this
course to quickly move beyond the
requirements and into implementation.
And why is it too?
Because it's the second iteration.
The third is in planning.
I can kind of show you the beginnings of
that.
And one thing I'd like to to to to
express is that it's kind of an agile
development philosophy that if something
is hard to do,
you want to do it more often.
So I'm trying to iterate this as,
you know,
often as I can in order to try to improve
the process as much as I can.
Now of course this is not the only way
that you can you do a greenfield
development,
but what I think is kind of interesting
about this is that it it it really allows
us to lean heavily on the A I to help us.
The other side of things that ARM doesn't
really capture well is the the use cases
or the processes that that you need to
implement in order to actually have an
application that actually do something.
And so examples of that would be to
promote a lecturer to a senior lecturer,
promote a senior lecturer to an associate
professor, etc.
These are all use cases that we would
want to see implemented.
We would want to actually describe what
those use cases are and be detailed about
what our.
Expectations are so that when we ask AI
to help us implement it,
it has a better sense for what the what
our expectations are.
I'm sure you're all familiar with use
cases, so at least half of us your.
So let's talk about, you know,
creating project instructions.
Alright, so let's do this.
How can I get to this?
What I'm going to do is open U Visual
Studio and I'll show you the the model.
Um.
Where is my model?
Here we go.
Models. Here we go. And here's our model.
And I have that extension installed so we
can actually work with this model.
Here's you can see it's the same thing
that I was showing you on the side.
But what the the only reason I came over
here is I wanted to show you the the
verbalization piece. So let me um.
Choose the.
Orm tools and these are some of the tools
you can use to build the model,
but I want the verbalizer.
O with this.
I can say show me.
A verbalization of just the room number
and see what it does.
So a room number is a value type.
It's a decimal. It has a room number,
some example data.
So what's interesting about the example
data is it's actually used to validate
the.
Model.
So if you create a something in the model
that doesn't match that and so each exact
room has one room number.
It's possible that more than one room has
that same room number for each building
and room number and much more one room is
in that building and has that room number.
So this association with building and
room number provides a a preferred
identification scheme for a room.
So to know precisely what room you're
you're you're referring to in the
universe of that we're that we're talking
about here, you need to know.
What building it's in as well as the the
room number and this is essentially a
derived uniqueness key and the idea is
that you can select anything in the model.
And it will then verbalize all of that.
And the benefit that I I saw with this
was that this is something I can give to
an A an A I and it can start to make some
sense out of this or in terms of
understanding what the.
What the business rules are for this
particular domain?
All right, so anyway,
so this is I think interesting and I and
in terms of what we wanted to look at for
it, let me bring up the project.
And.
Um.
So here in our model models forwarder is
that same arm diagram and the picture of
it.
And.
Here is the uh the.
The bit what I'm referring to as the
business rules and here is the facts and
constraints which are the verbalization
of all of the rules in that model.
As well as.
At the bottom are some workflows or use
cases that that we want to make sure that
the application implements.
So this is like the the core document
that's going to drive that we're going to
use to make sure that.
The application actually does enforce all
of the business rules that we've
described here and can implement all of
the workflows that we've actually defined.
Any any questions on this?
So the idea here is that we this becomes
a a key,
a key document that we can then start to
use to produce other artifacts from this
that then conform to to to to that.
So what I did in this model then is I
have a a prompt.
Which is the generated instructions
prompt.
Let me preview this and open it in a
window.
And what this,
what this one is doing is it wants to say,
OK,
take these business rules that you and
create instruction files that will guide
developers in implementing ACQRS academia
system that enforces the business rules
in that business rule.
Each file must be complete,
actionable and production ready.
It's going to put them in an instructions
generated folder and it's going to
produce a project overview instruction
that defines the system domain,
the core entities and their relationships,
the key business and variance.
The high level architecture overview,
and because we've asked for a CQRS
implementation,
invariants are some of the things that
you want to be able to implement.
Then there's an SDLC process instruction
file that defines the development
workflow.
Specifies the code review requirements,
the definition of done and mandates the
TD approach.
Here we have a git flow workflow
instructions that specifies the branch
naming, defines commit messages,
includes the PR template.
Here's specific instructions for
implementing a CQRS application.
It will create a architectural design
instruction file,
an Azure infrastructure instruction file,
configuration management,
testing requirements,
the documentation guidelines.
Monitoring observability and instructions,
security compliance,
deployment operations, CIDC pump pipeline,
the AI code governance,
the database migrations instructions,
domain glossary instructions.
And then it defines what each file should
contain,
which is a some of a structure in
sections on requirements,
implementation guidelines, examples,
validation checklists, etcetera.
So this basically is.
Is just creating a series of instruction
files that will be used to actually guide
the implementation.
So when we ask AI to help us build
something in the app,
it will have a better sense of what we're
asking it to do.
But also important to this,
each generated file must contain
validation.
Requirements.
So the idea is that you can as you're
going through and implementing pieces of
the application that actually put this
functionality,
it should have instructions included in
the instruction files.
That help you validate that it actually
has created what you expect it to create
and so and then the final it finishes up
with the output instructions.
So any questions on this?
So again,
we're leveraging instruction files as
we've done in the past and there's a bit
of overlap to what we from what we
created in the legacy side of things and
what we're doing here,
it's expressed in a slightly different
format.
What I'm working towards is a
consolidated set of instruction files for
different purposes,
because much of what I'm asking it to
create here would be usable in terms of
the different kinds of instruction files.
So be usable in multiple projects,
the documentation guidelines.
Shouldn't really change from project to
project, for instance,
so I should be able to create these
instruction files and put them create
them once and use them as a repository of
instructions instead of asking to have it
be generated all the time.
And then this instruction file would go
down to just creating the instruction
files necessary to guide this specific.
Implementation,
which would be mostly along the project
overview side.
All right. Any questions here? All right,
so let's let's go back to the project
then.
And here we see the implementation of the
generated.
The instruction files for the roject
itself.
So here we have our roject overview
instructions O this one is going to be.
Uh, there's our preview.
So here it provides comprehensive
overview of the application,
the main entities,
high level architecture.
So this covers the domain model,
the business rules,
the entity relationships,
the high level system architecture.
Does not cover implementation specific
details or the schemas or the API
specifications.
It's the deployment configurations.
So what we're kind of dealing with here
is a more of a logical model or a logical
definition of the application,
but not the specifics.
Of how it should be implemented.
The prerequisites are that it's using
domain driven design concepts,
it's using CQRS and event sourcing
patterns,
as well as it has the knowledge of the
academic management process and a basic
understanding of.net 8 and C# 12.
Core business capabilities,
student management, academic,
academic program management,
course management,
assessment and grading institutional
administration.
Then it gets into some of the core domain
entities and how those should be defined
in C#.
It's suggestions what a course would look
like.
What an academic program aggregate
aggregate would look like the departments
of faculty and the the the the the
student enrollment rules.
Students and we can see there's a quite a
bit of detail here.
Here's what the entity relationships
would look like,
what the boundaries of each aggregate are,
the high level architecture that it's
looking to try to implement the
technology stack.
How we would integrate integration
patterns, performance requirements?
Security considerations,
implementation guidelines for different
types of classes.
So here's a command handler,
what it what it should look like,
what a query handler should look like,
the cross-cutting concerns in terms of
error handling.
Correlation ID propagation for monitoring.
It then references other diagram,
other instruction files as well,
and then it has this validation checklist
at the end that says that when all of
these things are done,
we consider the project to be complete.
All right. Any questions on on that?
So I'm kind of going through this example
that it's already.
I've already run through this,
already created an implementation based
on on all this and I'll show you that
application in a minute.
But I want to follow through the process
and kind of illustrate how that process
was defined and how to how.
I used AI to help me build this.
So for instance,
when it's creating this project over the
instructions,
it's using that business rules to help us
help it understand what what they
actually actually implemented.
One of the things that I think is
interesting or I was was interesting when
I was looking at what it was producing in
terms of the definition of the
application.
I think I can go back down here and show
you that.
Where it was. Yeah, it's here.
Is that? Yeah, we'll look at this.
Is that nowhere in my my requirements dot
MD file? In fact, why don't I?
Show you that if I go to that business
rules MD file here.
Let me do a search.
For students.
So no place in my business rules have I
actually specified that I want to see a
student.
Implemented.
So this is something I don't know if you
would call it a hallucination,
but it's something that it's inferred
from the.
From the business rules that I've
described and the workflows that I've
described that there is something akin to
a.
Academic to a student that should be
involved in this and this would be one of
the things I would try to improve on is
that particularly when you're working in
vertical slices and and like I said,
I I don't need to bring in entities into
the model that I don't already that
aren't explicitly defined.
And so quite a bit of the effort was was.
Quite a bit of effort was put into the
process of actually, you know,
in the implementation for supporting the
student in the in in the actual
implementation with things like
enrollment.
And grading,
you know we make until the model makes a
reference that.
That that a course can can be graded,
but it doesn't specifically specify that
that that the student is being graded.
So that was this was something that was
that was obvious that I needed to kind of
tighten up on the.
Instructions to try to to make sure that
it was actually not bringing something
into the model that or into the into the
application that wasn't actually defined.
All right,
so once we have all of these instructions
created, there is a.
Another prompt,
a prompt file that says go ahead and now
create implementation prompts to to guide
that implementation.
So what this prompt does.
Basically it goes to what the prop file
requirements are and then what the
implementation task format is and.
What the verification framework looks
like.
Then it goes what the academic components
that need to be addressed.
So a core infrastructure,
academic management,
administrative function, user interfaces.
What the what the quality assurance
requirements are and what an example of
verification checklists are and what the
success criteria are for for implementing
that particular piece.
And so running this prompt basically
means that it's what it's going to do is
going to,
it's going to take those business
requirements and it's going to and the
instruction files and it's going to
produce prompts.
In the generated folder to actually do
the implementation.
So here using a more layered approach,
what it's saying is I want to do a
foundation database schema.
And then a authentication implementation
that I want to do an infrastructure API
infrastructure implementation,
core student management,
faculty management,
course catalog management and piece by
piece with the idea that we would.
Then use these to help us actually
implement the the app. So here we have.
Um.
Again.
Uh.
I need to go here.
So this would be the instructions for
setting up a database schema and and and
entity framework.
So the the intent here is that this is be
a given us instructions for a developer
or the NAI assistant to help with
actually the implementation of this core
data model.
So here we have the the it's broken down
into tasks.
We have a series of tasks that need to be.
Executed what the task description is.
Configure Entity Framework Core in the
infrastructure project with a SQL Server
provider.
Entity Framework Core packaging packages
that are we'll be using create the
Academia DB context.
Configure connection string for
management.
Set up the dependency injection
registration with the acceptance criteria
for that particular task would be that we
have EF core packages installed and
referenced the academia class created
with a proper configuration.
The connection string is configurable via
app settings dot Jason and that the DB
contest is registered and so this what we
can do then we can then say OK AI can you
help me implement this this from this
particular project can you implement task
one and then it will go through and.
Do its best to try to actually fulfill
these requirements.
Does that make sense?
Is it John? I was offline a little bit.
What's the end end goal or end product
coming out of this framework?
Uh,
we were hoping to see an application that
we can actually that we can actually run.
And and test.
And this application would do what?
Well it well we defined in the business
requirements that it's a an academia
application that manages faculty and what
those how those how that faculty what
their what their roles are.
I'm using a I'm using a standard you know
OK.
Got it.
business model for this that's.
I I took from a a website that has you
know has detailed description of actually
how the model is created.
So I'm basically making an assumption
that here that we have a we have business
requirements we've we've documented those.
Business requirements in some level of
detail, right through use cases,
through whatever other documentation that
we would want it to have the AI consider.
Right.
And then I'm going through a process of
analyzing those business requirements or
having AI assist with that.
To turn that into instructions to guide
the implementation,
as well as instructions for the
implementation in terms of specific tasks.
So you could easily turn this like into a.
You know into a a a task in a work item
system that says OK you need to go about
and implement this as a as a task to
create this in the case of the source one
the the core entity framework set up in
order to get it implemented.
And then some developer could pick this
up and and and do that implementation.
In this experiment though,
I'm actually I use it to give it to AI
and ask AI to to actually attempt the
implementation first and I'll talk about.
That process and how that process went in
a bit.
Thank you.
Other questions on this?
Oh, I have a question.
So when you look at the end to end
process starting with the ORM diagram all
the way to the up and running working
product,
how much manual tweaking did you actually
do to the instruction files or the prompt
files or the actual code?
I I you know because that was an
experiment I did I I'm treating the
iterations that as a whole cycle through
the process as opposed to stopping and
evaluating each individual way because
then I can by by doing that I can see
where the.
AI instructions are not adequate.
For example,
the fact that it created a student and we
didn't need a student in part of the
domain is obviously a problem with the
instructions that I'm giving AI,
and I need to kind of loop back and
figure out what that is if you were to
follow this process.
Real world application.
You would stop at every case.
You would look at every file,
tweak them and move them forward because
you're focusing on developing one
application at the time.
I'm trying to make this an iterative
process so I can improve it so it becomes.
Easier to take advantage of and.
Oh, sorry, how many iterations?
How many iterations does it take to get
No, go ahead.
to where you want to be, roughly?
Well, so the the first one I tried,
I didn't actually make it all the way
through the process to the UI,
so I didn't have anything to show but
like a back end API.
So in the second iteration,
which I'm showing you here,
I wanted to make sure I got at least that
far because I wanted to see how the AI
would go about building a user interface
based on just these requirements that
I've given it so far,
what the use cases are,
what the business rules are.
Right. And I made,
I made really good progress on that.
There's a a couple of dashboards and some
some.
Maintenance applications that that that
actually work and and that was so I so I
feel like I've made a lot of progress
there.
And it certainly would give you something
that you could then take as a starting
point and further refine it with
additional AI assistance and hand coding
to actually produce something that was
production ready.
I don't think it was quite.
There in this iteration yet,
and what I want to try to do in this
third iteration is what I've decided is
one that model I showed is fairly
comprehensive in terms of its problem
domain.
So what I want to do is pare that down to
a smaller set of business rules.
And do a quicker implementation so I can
iterate a little bit faster and prove out
the process a little bit farther.
Because what I really want to see and
want to be able to demonstrate is the
business rules that we defined in the in
the arm diagram.
Get implemented in numerous places in the
application and enforce those business
rules.
That's what I want to see is that
traceability because that one gives you
the the confidence that your your
application is actually doing what you
suggested it to do.
Now of course you know there's always
improvements that can be made in there
into and this will give you I think a a
shell of a.
Or beginnings of of an implementation,
but I think it does a a pretty good job
on the back end pieces of it in
particularly.
All right, so.
OK. OK. So oh, go ahead. I.
And really the, yeah,
so the exercise is say, OK,
you're doing greenfield development and
you want to have AI help you do that.
This is I'm trying to show you can
actually get a lot of help in that
Greenfield development space if you go
about it.
Go about it systematically and get AI
involved in it from the very beginning.
OK, I think I get it.
So if I was to develop 100 similar apps,
then the iterations would help me perfect
my instruction files that give me a good
start, right?
And then if I'm working on the same app,
then the iterations will be just
Well.
improving the end result,
which is the source code.
I think that at least that's how I see it
is.
Well, so yeah,
I what I would say is that this is,
you know,
if this was guiding an existing
application,
the the the the instruction files that we
have here would be applicable.
Whether you're doing manual coding or
whether you're doing AI assisted coding.
So it's it's something that you can then
you know you can tweak and you can
improve as you go along.
And the other thing that I think would be
important about this is that, OK,
let's say that we did want student
involved and it wasn't actually
implemented. We got to expand the.
That we're kind of trying to support,
we can add to the conceptual model and
then we can use that to produce much of
the implementation to support those two
concepts that we've introduced at the
very beginning.
OK.
And do we still have time for questions
or are we?
Sure. Ohh
So one more one more question I have is
let's say I I heard there is something
called GitHub Spark.
So I wonder if I could take just the ORM
diagram and say something like hey
Copilot,
use GitHub Spark and generate a fully
functional app from this ORM diagram.
Is that possible today and is it feasible,
practical,
Uh.
or is that science fiction still?
Yeah.
You know, I I I've looked at,
I've looked at Spark and I think it would
be another interesting experiment to
compare the two approaches,
but I'm I'm essentially trying to do the
same thing here,
but make it a little bit more.
I I guess having having humans in the
loop a little bit more than maybe Spark
is gonna do. But yeah,
I I think it would be an interesting
approach,
but I would say in addition to the ARM
model.
I would you want to define use cases as
well. To me,
that's two sides of the same coin.
There's the structural side of things,
which Orms handles very well,
but then there's the process side of
things, which is.
I think better described in a use in a
use case or a similar kind of structure
or document.
OK,
so this this diagramming tool or language
is basically not sufficient to capture
all the use cases, correct?
No, it's not. Yeah, it's it.
It came up out of the database modeling
community.
It was initially used to define database
schemas to, you know, it would create.
It could create schemas that are.
You know,
compliant with the 5th normal form,
so you can. So it's very,
very good at that,
OK.
but there is little support for process
in it and so you need to you need to use
some other way of defining that I think
in order to be able to get something
that's.
Usable.
OK. Thank you.
Yeah.
Let me define those what those are I
think we looked at.
Yeah, so implementation tasks.
So the first task was to create up the
Entity Framework core setup,
then the core entity models,
the academic structure entities
themselves, the infrastructure entities,
the data,
create database database migration.
Implement the repository pattern and then
it has some verification steps,
so it's looking for a particular.
Methods to be implemented and then so
integration testing and performance
testing against the the database,
what the code quality standards should be,
how it should integrate with the existing
system.
And it finishes with the database schema
can accurately reflect that that or model
if we were to go back here and look at
the.
Timeline.
Uh, actually source.
I want the source tree.
So we go in down to the bottom.
So here's the the initial commit and.
Um.
We look at the changes for that.
Basically the only thing I have in the
initial commit is the MIT is the the
license file.
So if you follow this you can say oh well
show me those changes.
And.
I guess maybe not that one. Oh,
here I added a PNG file to it.
Here I added the business rules.
Here it's creating the instruction files.
I made a small change to the OR model,
updated the project overview instructions.
So you can see here I'm going through all
of the steps.
So what I basically tried to do is as I
was going through the process was.
Do a commit that illustrates where I was
in that in that process. So this is all.
Going through and and just doing the prep
work before I started to generate code
and then you can see here I'm starting to
actually add in implementations
instructions and and we're start to
implement individual tasks.
So here's task three.
So here I'm in prompt three in task one
and I want to continue to try to improve
on my ability by process here by with the
idea that you could essentially go
through the commit log and you could see
how the application grew from the
business roles.
The roles all the way through in here,
Prop 11 and task two, task three,
et cetera.
So because again, it's experiment,
I'm gonna be able to repeat it and
improve on it going forward.
And it really, like I said,
the goal is to really lean heavily into
the A I side of things because we really
want to know how much it can assist us
and how close it can get to do to get
into something that we can show people
that it's working and doing what we want
it to do.
All right. Any questions there?
Now I will.
I will say that I did not make it through
every single prompt and every single task.
There were some things I I chose to leave
out just simply because I had a deadline
and I wanted to be able to present
something that was working.
At that at that deadline.
And so I I kind of shortcuted the process
and and lefted it, lefted it there.
All right, so um.
Then then in terms of actual
implementation,
if we look at the file itself,
the code itself outside of the GitHub
folder and our models.
Under source.
It created an admin interface, an API,
coverage tests, a faculty dashboard,
the actual implementation of the
infrastructure,
which is another thing I didn't get to
see implemented to be OK now I want this
to be deployed into Azure.
A student portal and then a bunch of
tests if I were to go to.
The terminal window.
And change into our.
And say.net test.
Oops.
Since I asked it to to use a, you know,
a test driven development and to make
sure that there was tests for the the
work.
You can see it's a pretty substantial
project in terms of the the time it's
gonna take to do a core compile.
And now it's going to the testing.
So all the tests run 1061 individual
tasks and all they've all they're all
passing.
8.
So, so far so good.
Any questions?
I I have a question but.
It was go ahead.
So just like in terms of like start to
finish,
all you're doing is interacting with the
agents, right?
How long did all this take to like
produce this this application like say
you you start with the business logic?
And then like you, you know,
like from when you press run for the
Um.
first time.
And then of course maybe you have to
Yeah.
press run multiple times,
but how long is that all that thick?
It it it took, you know,
I'm working on this part time,
so it took probably 3 weeks worth of
partial time to get to get it to this
point. And sometimes, you know,
some days it was,
I was able to spend more time on it than.
Others, but um,
which that's something I want to also
improve is, you know, time tracking.
So that I I can I can answer that
question with more precision than than I
I'm able to do now.
I had let me I think I have a slide to
kind of help illustrate the how it works.
Maybe I don't so.
Yeah, so like when you say 3 weeks,
is that mostly just like pressing run on
like the different prompts that it's
generated?
Or is it like you're reviewing the work
and you know you have to like add your
own feedback like in between these runs?
Well, um.
So the the the way the process worked was
this is I would go into the the the chat
window and I would say OK for prompt one,
task one,
could you go ahead and implement prop one
and task one.
So then it would read those that portion
of the prompt file and it would bring in
the instruction files that.
And then it would go ahead and do that
implementation because that task had
validation criteria at the end of it and
so I would expect that those that
validation criteria would pass and.
What I would do once it finished,
I would actually ask it to verify that it
actually had had completed those those
completed the the implementation and it
passed all of those.
Validation requirements.
What I found is that as it was going
through the process of actually doing the
implementation,
particularly the implementation of the
testing,
that there will be a lot of feedback
going back into the the model to guide it
in terms of producing a test that would
pass.
Which is something that on my list of
things to try to improve is to make sure
that it's it can get the testing closer
to the mark.
But usually it would produce a bunch of
tests and it would a whole bunch of tests
would fail. Then it would, you know,
guide the AI in terms of fixing those
tests.
But I deliberately tried to not change
the model or change the instructions
because I wanted to see where they failed,
right?
Because it's kind of an exercise in
failure in order to be able to get the
feedback I wanted in order to improve it.
If I was going to try to take the same
approach and do it with a new Greenfield
app,
I would do exactly what you're saying.
I would take more time for a review to
make sure that at each point in the
process I was comfortable with what the
AI had actually produced.
That so that I could improve the chances
of it going forward and I would want to
do that with the entire team.
So everybody would have an impact input
in terms of what those instructions would
look like,
what those prompts would actually do and
then review what the output would what it
would.
Would would look like I think it produced
produced an estimate like kind of like
OK.
this estimates we saw earlier of how many
I think it was saying it was going to
take this somebody a good portion of
about of about 3 months.
To do this implementation based on its
estimates,
So.
but you know that's looking at 1
developer.
So this this was mostly like an
experiment like on the instructions,
not not as much on the prompts because
you were feeding it extra like prompt
information when you were like prompting
it to run implement different like.
I don't remember the word you use.
Well.
Well, I, you know, you know,
basically the only input I I gave it
outside of just guiding it in to do to to
do the verification and to implement the
test and make sure that for example that
there are if there was warnings in the
build that those warnings were addressed,
there's test failures that those test
failures are addressed.
I didn't put any other input into other
than that initial business requirements
file.
But but your input was that like you
would say something like, oh,
make sure that you run this test or like
sort of that sort of input.
There was like quite a bit of that, right?
There's a lot of run the tests and then
many times it would ask OK,
do you want to use this approach for
fixing the tests or do you want to fix
this test first or do you want to do this
implementation next?
It would have a lot of questions that
would come back to you that I would have
to make a decision.
about and how it proceeded.
So it wasn't a you know one button and
let it go and it goes all the way to the
the end. You know Obviously,
the closer we can get to that,
the the better off we'll be and the
sooner that we'll actually be able to
actually start to add our own value to
the implementation.
Yeah, that's very interesting.
Good.
So, yeah,
so just to continue that discussion.
So I would,
I would tell it to to do a task.
It would then implement that task.
It would report that it had completed the
task.
I would ask it to verify that those those
task validations were all working.
And most often they were all.
It would tell me that they were all
functioning properly.
This is where you might even bring
another model into the play to say I want
this other model to verify that this
implementation is correct. That would be,
I think, an interesting thing to do.
Then I would implement all the tasks that
way and then at the very end there was a
success criteria for the whole prompt and
I would verify, use it,
ask it to verify that that was done,
you know, in a real world scenario.
That would be a much more hands on
process to make sure that it actually had
accomplished those things that even maybe
you would take those same validation
requirements and and validate them
independently just to just so that you
have your own confidence that that was
implemented correctly and you could then
do your also your your your code review
to see that the implementation.
Was up to stuff,
but with the instruction files on the
implementation side,
I saw that the code was primary,
pretty well structured,
pretty well implemented.
I didn't see a lot of issues with.
The code that was generated.
So that process would go through a whole
prompt,
it would validate that prompt and then I
go on to the next prompt and I would
implement that prompt in that same
fashion and make sure that by the end
result there was no warnings,
no test failures, no compilation issues.
All the validation criteria was
successful,
but then I would go back and then have it
do a regression test and validate that
the prior prompts,
all their validation criteria were were
satisfied.
As well,
so that way I get so I wasn't as I was
implementing additional prompts,
I wasn't introducing some sort of
regression failure into into previous
prompts.
An improvement there might be that as
you're generating the implementation
instructions that you would.
Include the previous prompt's validation
requirements in the validation in the
success criteria for the current prompt
and that would automatically then
introduce that regression.
Testing.
All right, so let's um.
Let me look at.
I'm gonna make sure refresh my memory.
I'm working on the starting it the right
way.
Yeah, I think this is the one I want.
So this is basically this is this is just
a.
A short file that I asked AI to create so
that we could.
Uh, start all the services.
Oops.
Oh, I renamed the folder.
And I didn't fix this.
Think you need another Zeus directory in
between Git and Zeus?
Oh.
Yeah, right about that.
And I also don't wanna do this, so let me.
Talk that out.
I think that might do the trick.
No.
Right, let's put in front of that.
That'll fix it.
So this just goes through and builds the
project.
For the different components.
Uh, it also.
We'll shut down anything that had already
been running so that you know that you're
starting with a clean slate.
All right, so there we are complete.
It tells us how to actually access each
of the.
Each each of the the services,
either the running the the API or the
actual portal.
So let's take a look first at the.
Student portal.
So this is the the portal that I created.
I did not give it any instructions in
terms of how the UI should be built or
what it should look like.
So I was pleasantly surprised to see that
it was actually a.
A pretty decent looking application given
the fact that it's just a I generated as
a login.
If you remember that I've been here
before, it's logged me in.
It has a for a particular student it
tells you.
How many courses they rolled in,
what their current GPA is,
what their current credits are,
or any deadlines that they have.
This is not fully implemented because I
didn't get to some of the some of the
implementation prompts that would have
fleshed out the implementation a little
bit more.
Um.
But it's and it the way that the way I'm
running it right now is since I did not
get it to be a a a deployable application
into Azure,
it's running essentially with an in
memory database and it's I I created some
seed data to put into it so that would
have.
So that it would show up.
I did put a lot of effort into helping
debug it and get it to actually function
because in many ways the first time it
came up it was a blank page and so I had
to guide it into.
By pointing out things that weren't
working quite correctly and and prompted
to actually implement,
implement the features or change the
implementation slightly. I didn't.
I didn't tweak the code myself directly.
Um, we can go back to the dash.
This is the dashboard.
Here you have my my courses so you can
see what the what you're enrolled in.
So here's a a piece that's not
implemented yet.
And here you can filter that by what
you're currently enrolled in.
Um.
So in that I I think a bad start on an
implementation. Um.
In terms of actually implementing things,
so I I was pleasantly surprised at this.
The other thing I thought was fun if I
could get this to to load.
Um.
And this is quite helful.
So it's figured out what port it needs to
run it on.
And now here it's loaded into the simple
browser and the benefit of that is that
it has this add element to chat feature.
So you can say select an element or do a
continuous selection.
So if he says say I want to select an
element then I can go through this.
And I'll say if this doesn't look right
or I want to put,
I want to add something to this
particular piece of the.
Of the UI.
We'll select that,
then add the element screenshot,
which is just this piece of it.
And then you could you could ask AI to
actually assist you in modifying that or
changing that in some fashion.
So if you see something like.
You know here where you would like to see
more space between here and there,
although I think in our portal it was
fine. You could actually then tell it OK,
put more space between these two elements
and it will go then and make the changes
to the code in order to do that.
So that was very helpful,
particularly as the UI was coming
together.
The other thing that was very useful was
to actually go in when you when you're
running the the portal itself like here
is to bring up the debugging tools.
And.
I want to go to the console.
So we can see that's a nice clean
debugging console,
but if you have an an issue here that you
want it to take to to actually you can
right click and say I want to actually do
it here.
To copy the entire console and then you
can go back into the chat window and say
just paste that console in and then
describe what the problem that you're
that you're seeing or or what issue,
what error that it's actually showing up
in the console that you wanted to address
and it will go about.
Analyzing the the console and and trying
to come up with a fix for every issue,
whatever issue you see.
Very very efficient way I think of
addressing problems and.
Yeah,
I and as I went through this process,
it was there was a good deal of.
You know of running the application,
capturing the error messages and then
asking AI to to address those errors.
Saves a lot of, I think,
a lot of drudgery trying to troubleshoot
issues,
particularly issues that the A I created
on its own as opposed to something that
you've.
Inherited,
but any question on that technique?
So the other thing,
I don't know if I've mentioned this
before,
but one of the applications I'm working
with, it has two separate repositories,
1 repository for the front end and one
repository for the back end.
And sometimes I would see an error in the
console that was related to the back end
and I would ask it to create a prompt for
investigating that error on the back end
and then I would switch over to the back
end repository and then I would ask to,
you know, ask AI to.
To troubleshoot this problem on their
side and then they would investigate and
it would then figure out what changes
needed to be made to address that problem.
Questions.
Any comments or questions on that?
All right, then I let's well,
let's see one of the there's.
We go back to the terminal window.
Let's see. Well,
I was thinking about what port the other
one was on.
Think uh.
4.
That's the faculty dashboard.
It's still thinking.
So here we have um.
Let me show you the dashboard page.
So here's the the faculty dashboard,
how many active courses there are for
that particular.
Professor.
The courses they're teaching.
What recent courses are teaching?
And then you can quick actions for
opening the Gray book,
some upcoming deadlines.
Right.
So given the the fact that all we really
defined it was some high level workflows
that needed to be implemented and the the
business rules that need to be enforced,
it's inferred quite a bit in terms of
actually what it wanted to implement so.
And it's done a pretty decent job of
actually implementing.
So again,
I think this is promising in terms of the
the ability to quickly produce a UI
that's got something that to show
something.
Even if the point of view all you're
doing is prototyping something,
this will get you to that prototype I
think a great deal faster than you were
doing if you do it on your own.
All right. Any questions on this?
All right, well,
let's take a break for lunch,
and then when we come back,
we'll start to actually do some of this
Greenfield work ourselves.